---
layout: post
title: "Sprint One Overview"
description: "The team describes how sprint one went."
category: sprintreviews
tags: [ffos, sprintreview]
---
{% include JB/setup %}

For the FirefoxOS Portland State Capstone team, the first sprint was
about getting base app functionality in place. We're building a internet
messaging app for the device, using new web technologies as well as the
WebAPI's offered by the base FFOS itself. At the end of this sprint, we
hope to be able to message between instances of the app.

Below are updates from individual team members:

Jeff
The particular challenges for me was having to learn 4 things at once
which I never touched before. I had to learn firebase, jQuery, backbone,
and javascript all at once.
I love how jQuery can solve different browser compatibilities and how
firebase can be easily used by storing data as JSON objects. Some of the
challenges that I ran into was the 
limited amount of example backbone codes to utilize the the models,
collection, and views. I solved this by just being really creative with
google to find enough examples. I worked on the 
"message-displaying" story.One bug that I ran into that was relayed to
me by QA revolved around displaying messages. I had to convert <,>,&,",
and space to their respective html entities so that if users typed
<script> ..... </script> as the message, the scripts don't get executed.

Charles
Trying to learn how to work with backbone.js was a challenge. I have not
coded anything with javascript before so it took a while to get the code
working correctly. 
I was surprised by how easy it was to integrate the firebase collection
and have it send the messages to our firebase. It was also easy to
create the backbone model and collection once I got the hang of working
with backbone. The only real challenge I ran into was working with the
backbone view. Luckily others on the team were able to help with the
view and in the end we had a basic chat app that could send and receive
messages
I failed to sanitize the input for the firebase and that lead to the
ability to send javascript code through to the server and then when it
was displayed it could hijack the browser session. This was fixed by
implementing a method to encode javascript into HTML codes. 
During this sprint I learned a lot about javascript and HTML. I have not
created any web based applications before and so have very little
experience with these technologies. I have found that they are easy to
learn if you spend a few weeks working through tutorials and reading web
blogs. This sprint has taught me a lot about ramping up on new
technologies quickly.

Ken
What was the story: Send messages
Were there challenges: No, the examples provided show exactly how to
accomplish this task.
If so, How did you solve them: N/A
Did you encounter any bugs: No.
Was anything learned from this sprint: Prior to this sprint, I spent a
lot of time learning JavaScript, Firebase, and GitHub for this kind of
task.

Adam
This sprint I served as the Quality Engineer for the team. My biggest
challenge, was because the team was new to both Web Development and
FirefoxOS development, they were challenged to finish their stories.
This left me without a lot of work. 
I also developed a small control for installing our App. While using the
FirefoxOS installation API was straight forward, using the simulator
proved a challenge at times. It wasn't clear at first that running the
app from a directory was actually installing the app, and that unless we
declared our external dependencies in our manifest, it will fail
silently. Testing and debugging have improved with the alpha version of
the simulator, but to understand what is going on, I still go to Chrome
Developer Tools first.
